---
title: 2019 Recap
date: "2019-12-31"
slug: "2019-recap"
path: "/blog/2019-recap"
thumbnail: "https://img.icons8.com/fluent/48/000000/journal.png"
published: true
tags:
---
I spent most of my time in 2019 at college, trying to finish all my university courses by the end of 7th semester so I can focus on Thesis / Final Project at the final semester (8th semester). Planning to graduate in 2020. So...not really much happened in this year, but I learned so much in terms of mobile application and web development. How to build an Android App and got my hands on React framework for the first-time in this year.

## What I learned in 2019
- Java and XML - How to build Native Android apps using Android Studio.
- REST API - How to fetch data and display it with recycler view in Android app 
- PHP - how to program a website with PHP, MVC.
- How to setup a website using database with PHP, laragon, and MySQL
- CodeIgniter - how to use CodeIgniter to build website.
- How to deploy PHP sites with its database to cPanel hosting.
- How to setup arcanist in Linux Ubuntu.
- How to use Git for managing personal and team projects.
- TypeScript - how to use it, what is the importance of strong typing, and how to compile it into JS
- React - how to build an app using React with CRA.
- GraphQL - what is it and how is it used
- Apollo - how to implement apollo as a client for GraphQL
- GatsbyJS - how to build a site with Gatsby
- Ionic - how to build hybrid apps and how does it different from native apps.
- Angular2+ - forced to learn this framework because learning Ionic Angular and luckily I've learned TypeScript.
- Zeit - found a Netlify alternative and how to deploy site with it.

## Things I'm Excited for at 2019
- Brawl Stars! I'm always excited for Supercell's game releases. They always made fantastic game. It's finally released in Android platform by the end of 2018 and I played it almost everyday for some months.  
- Weathering with You (Tenki no Ko)! Finally another work from Makoto Shinkai after Your Name (Kimi no Nawa).
  The story is really great and I love how it also refers back to some Your Name's characters at some scenes. 
- Avengers Endgame! Who don't get excited for it? No need to explain anything.
- I switched to Sony after using Canon for several years. It's so much better and much convenient to use. Happy to finally switched to mirrorless and getting used to a different camera interfaces. 